
Welcome to the wonderful world of Git!

In this initiation packet you will find everything related to using Git for development
This welcome packet contains items such as:

* Training Materials
* Presentations
* Installation Scripts
* FAQ's
* Contact Information

Before proceeding please take a moment to install and configure the tool chain
by following the instructions below.


Installation and Configuration

Windows Client Installation

For the Windows platform please consult the install/git-core/windows/README
file for installation details for that platform. For the windows platform
there is no option to build from the source code documented; there is an
opportunity for a developer to contribute back to this project by providing
build scripts and documentation on how to build Git and its related dependencies
on the Windows platform.

Unix Client Installation

For Unix-based clients we suggest using the package managers build into these
systems. Simplification wrappers are provided that insure that the correct set
of packages and dependencies are installed for your specific system. To install
Git and related dependencies execute the following command:

  sudo install/git-core/unix/linux/install.sh

For Unix-based clients there are recommended git-extras such as diff and merge
tools for which simplification scripts have been written to install these
automatically.

Depending upon your development environment and tools used there are also
recommended git-config files. Please consult this directory for a list of
available configurations that you should consider setting. Note that mandatory
configuration settings are established if you use the scripts provided, but
extra settings for environments such as Java, Maven, and Eclipse will ensure
that generated files are not unintentionally checked in. To install the common
configuration required for Java development run the following scripts:

  install/git-extras/set-gitignore-java.sh
  install/git-extras/set-gitignore-maven.sh
  install/git-extras/set-gitignore-eclipse.sh

If you wish to use p4merge as your integrated diff and merge tool run the
following script:

  sudo install/git-extras/install-p4merge.sh


Setting Your Email and UserName

After installing Git run the following commands from your shell prompt:

git config --global user.name "Full Name"
git config --global user.email firstname.lastname@yourcompany.com

On Windows there are GUI dialogs that enable you to set these, or for cygwin
follow the same instructions as for Unix.


Documents and Folders

The following structure exists in this welcome packet, and described here are the
contents of each folder:

WELCOME             - this document
CONTRIBUTE          - how to contribute back to this project to make things better
docs/
  faqs/             - where you go first if you have a question
  manuals/
    cheat-sheets/   - cheat-sheets developers may find useful
    gitbook/        - the online git book, in both pdf and html forms
    gitman/         - the git manual, in html and man forms
    admins/         - the administrative and operational procedures
  policies/         - branch naming policies
  training/         - training materials
  dailyuse/
    contributors/   - a day in the life of a developer using git
    lieutenants/    - a day in the life of a lieutenant using git
    dictators/      - a day in the life of a dictator using git
  hostspec/
    BACKUP
    HARDWARE
    OS
install/
  README
  git-core/
    README
    windows/
      README        - details how to install git on windows
    unix/
      linux/
        debian/     - scripted installs for git on debian/ubuntu
        redhat/     - scripted installs for git on redhat/centos
      mac/          - scripted installs for git on mac
  git-extras/       - recommended extras for git
    README
  git-config/
    README
    git/
    templates/
  git-hosting/
    README
tests/
  git-tests/        - scripts used to test git itself, thirteen test criteria

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
